# SARS-CoV-2_GC_dinucleotide_Analysis

This was a bioinformatics project in an Introduction to R for Scientists class that showcased the concepts I learned in the semester.

SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) is a virus that has become an unprecedented worldwide problem that affects everyone's way of life--from survival, politics, economy, mental health, and more. COVID-19 has taken millions of lives. Bioinformatics methods are necessary to study the virus in order to expedite the development of therapeutics including vaccines, drugs, and antibodies against it. 
  The GC dinucleotide content of viruses are common in molecular virology to predict the stability and infectivity of viruses. It has been shown in HIV that CG dinucleotides are suppressed in order to avoid host antiviral defense. (Takata et al., CG-dinucleotide suppression enables antiviral defense targeting non-self RNA. Nature. 2017 Oct 5; 550(7674): 124–127. doi: 10.1038/nature24039). 
SARS-CoV-2, also an RNA virus just like HIV-1, may possess unique GC nucleotide compositions that may be responsible for its success as a pandemic virus. The first goal is to assess if SARS-CoV-2 along with other epidemic/famous coronaviruses such as MERS and SARS have a low GC content of which may serve as an indicator of its success as a pandemic-causing virus. The second goal is described next.
  The Spike protein of coronaviruses is the target of interest for vaccine and drug development. It is highly mutable and the high mutation rate has been a concern due to the potential ability to escape vaccine antibody protection. Understanding the codon usage of the Spike gene of pandemic/famous coronaviruses will enable prediction of susceptibility to infection, understanding of the evolution of coronaviruses, and development of effective vaccines and other therapeutics against the Spike protein. Thus, the second goal is to compare the codon usage of SARS-CoV-2, omicron variant, MERS, SARS, and coronavirus B814 to show how codon optimization has evolved and how it correlates with the pandemic/epidemic nature of these coronaviruses
  
